Using the IBM 1130 loader:

Flip down all 16 Console Entry Switches (on faceplate of the console printer)

Rotate the Mode switch to LOAD

Connect the USB cable from the console Arduino to a personal computer or terminal running a serial protocol at 9600 baud, 8-n-1 and wait for the prompt to appear.

The only characters that are ever valid to send are hexidecimal digits, =, #, @, Z, return and new line. Each line should be four hex digits, optionally with a #, Z, = or @ added to the start of the word. These characters can be modified in the program if you want to use different letters for #, =, @, Z or the prompt >. Until the loader is activated, the only valid line to send is #, the activation character.

The loader begins in deactivated mode. The # character will toggle the device between deactivated and activated modes. The value in the IAR when we are activated is the beginning address where subsequent words will be loaded, and it is where execution will begin when the mode switch is switched away from LOAD mode after deactivation. 

Entries that consist only of four hex digits will be loaded into core, after which the address is automatically advanced by one. Thus, a stream of lines of 4 hex digits will load a number of words into core in sequential locations starting from the current IAR.

If a line of four hex digits has a @ at the start, the word will be loaded into the IAR rather than loaded into core. This sets the address for the next word to be stored, or the address for execution when the mode switch is moved away from LOAD. 

If the line of four hex digits as an = sign at the start, signifying the eventual starting address for the code, the value is saved and then loaded into the IAR when the loader is eventually deactivated with the # command.

If the line of four hex digits has a Z at the front, it indicates that the hex value is interpreted as a count and that many words of 0000 are loaded into sequential addresses in the 1130. 

Thus, one typically would set the starting memory location after the initial activation command in a line such as @0100 then issue a number of lines of 4 hex digits that are placed in core sequentially beginning at address 0x0100. Lines with @ at the start of the line will skip to another location for the lines following this. 

To end the session, the user enters a # as the last line, which loads the IAR with that address then deactivates the loader.

Once the device confirms that it has been deactivated, the user turns the rotary MODE switch to RUN (or one of the single stepping modes) and pushes Program Start to begin normal operations. 
